## Introduction
Real Estate is property consisting of land and the buildings on it, along with its natural resourses.The history of real estate can be tracked back to ancient times, when land was acquired by conquest, purchase or inheritance. In the United States, real estate brokers began presenting houses for sale around 1900. By 1908, the National Association of Real Estate Exchanges was founded to bring brokers and agents together to facilitate selling of homes.

Real Estate agencies are business organizations that generally represent either the buyer or the seller in terms of home transactions, and work as a collective group of lincensed agents and/or brokers who operate a given geographical area. Real Estate agents are hired to market and sell properties on behalf of home sellers. They vet potential buyers, lead viewings, and help negotiate final selling price. They usually work to a base annual salary and may earn commision for house sales.

Agents who work for the seller, also known as listing agents, advise clients on how to price the property and prepare for a sale, including providing tips on last-minute improvements that can help boost the price or encourage speedy offers. Seller agents market the property through listing services, networking and advertisements. On the other hand, agents who work for the buyers search for available properties that match the buyer's price range and wish list.These agents often look at past sales data on comparable properties to help prospective buyers come up with a fair bid. 

Generally , real estate agencies act as intermidiaries between property buyers, sellers, landlords and tenants. They represent their clients' interests and work to achieve their goals in real estate transactions. This representation may involve marketing properties, identifying potential buyers or tenants, negotiating deals and handling paperwork.

This project aims to use linear regression to analyze the relationship between the location, the house characteristics and its sale price by developing a model that takes into account intrinsic characteristics of a property such as number of bedrooms , number of bathrooms , square footage of living space , level of craftmanship used to build the house, square footage of the lot and extrinsic factors such as the location of the property. By analyzing this factors, the model will be able to provide guidance to Azizi Realtors real estate agency when it comes to advising their clientel on property valuations. This approach offers a more scientific approach to real estate valuations compared to the traditional approaches that can lean towards the qualitative side. This analysis will provide valuable insights to the clientel of Azizi Realtors real estate agency helping them make informed decisions which in turn will benefit the agency by providing valuable service to their clients.
